doc/sfg-recipe.md, before:


# Deploy [Sterling Secure File Gateway](https://www.ibm.com/supply-chain/collaboration?utm_content=SRCWW&p1=Search&p4=43700068006590527&p5=p&gclid=CjwKCAiAjoeRBhAJEiwAYY3nDKkx-iT7gk0IHoCYzWN97TVVeQu_mOixEk4no6pi3I_MxnSH8GwSrhoCo8EQAvD_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds)

### Infrastructure - Kustomization.yaml
1. Edit the Infrastructure layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/1-infra/kustomization.yaml`, un-comment the following lines, commit and push the changes and synchronize the `infra` Application in the ArgoCD console.

```bash        
cd multi-tenancy-gitops/0-bootstrap/single-cluster/1-infra
```

```yaml
- argocd/consolenotification.yaml
- argocd/namespace-db2.yaml
- argocd/namespace-mq.yaml
- argocd/namespace-tools.yaml
- argocd/namespace-sealed-secrets.yaml
- argocd/serviceaccounts-db2.yaml
- argocd/serviceaccounts-mq.yaml
- argocd/serviceaccounts-tools.yaml
```

### Services - Kustomization.yaml
1. This recipe is currently set to use the `ibmc-file-gold` storageclass provided by IBM Cloud by default.
1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` and install Sealed Secrets by uncommenting the following line, **commit** and **push** the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console.
    ```yaml
    - argocd/instances/sealed-secrets.yaml
    ```
1. Generate Sealed Secrets resources required by Sterling File Gateway.

    1. From a terminal window and clone the `multi-tenancy-gitops-services` repository using your Git Organization.
        
        ```bash
        git clone git@github.com:${GIT_ORG}/multi-tenancy-gitops-services.git

    1. Generate a Sealed Secret for the DB2 credentials.
        ```bash
        B2B_DB_SECRET=db2inst1 ./b2b-db-secret-secret.sh
        ```
    1. Generate a Sealed Secret for the MQ credentials, keystore and truststore password.
        ```bash
        JMS_PASSWORD=password JMS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD=password JMS_TRUSTSTORE_PASSWORD=password ./b2b-jms-secret.sh
        ```
    1. Generate a Sealed Secret for the B2B System Passphrase.
        ```bash
        B2B_SYSTEM_PASSPHRASE_SECRET=password ./b2b-system-passphrase-secret.sh
        ```

1. Generate Persistent Volume Yamls required by Sterling File Gateway:
    ```bash
    ./ibm-b2bi-documents-pv.sh
    ./ibm-b2bi-logs-pv.sh
    ./ibm-b2bi-resources-pv.sh
    ./sterlingtoolkit-pv.sh
    ```

>  💡 **NOTE**  
> Push the changes & sync ArgoCD this will 


1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` by uncommenting the following lines to install the pre-requisites for Sterling File Gateway, **commit** and **push** the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console.
    ```yaml
    - argocd/instances/ibm-db2.yaml
    - argocd/instances/ibm-mq.yaml
    - argocd/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi-setup.yaml
    ```

>  💡 **NOTE**  
> Push the changes & sync ArgoCD this will 

1. Generate Helm Chart values.yaml for the Sterling Secure File Gateway Helm Chart:
    
    ```bash
    cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi
    ./ibm-sfg-b2bi-overrides-values.sh
    ```

1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` by uncommenting the following line to install Secure File Gateway, commit and push the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console:
   
1. Generate Helm Chart values.yaml for the Sterling File Gateway Helm Chart:
    ```
    cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi
    ./ibm-sfg-b2bi-overrides-values.sh
    ```
1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` by uncommenting the following line to install Sterling File Gateway, **commit** and **push** the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console:

    ```yaml
    - argocd/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi.yaml
    ```

>  💡 **NOTE**  
> Push the changes & sync ArgoCD this will take around 1.5 hr.
---
> **⚠️** Warning:  
> If you decided to scale the pods or upgrade the verison you should do the following steps:
- Step 1:
    ```bash
    cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi
    ```
- Step 2:
  - Inside `values.yaml`, find & set 
  - ```bash
    datasetup:
        enable: false
    dbCreateSchema: false
    ```
> This is to avoid going through the job again

___

### Validation

1.  Retrieve the Sterling File Gateway console URL.

    ```bash
    oc get route -n tools ibm-sfg-b2bi-sfg-asi-internal-route-filegateway -o template --template='https://{{.spec.host}}'
    ```

2. Log in with the default credentials:  username:`fg_sysadmin` password: `password`

Commit message:

removing all secure words and touch ups (#221)
* Modify bootstrap to add popd (#215)

Signed-off-by: Budi Darmawan <vbudi@us.ibm.com>
Signed-off-by: therayy <raafat@ibm.com>

* removing all secure words and touch ups

Signed-off-by: therayy <raafat@ibm.com>

* adding directory to access before scripts

Signed-off-by: therayy <raafat@ibm.com>

Co-authored-by: Budi Darmawan <vbudi@yahoo.com>

doc/sfg-recipe.md, after:

# Deploy [Sterling File Gateway](https://www.ibm.com/supply-chain/collaboration?utm_content=SRCWW&p1=Search&p4=43700068006590527&p5=p&gclid=CjwKCAiAjoeRBhAJEiwAYY3nDKkx-iT7gk0IHoCYzWN97TVVeQu_mOixEk4no6pi3I_MxnSH8GwSrhoCo8EQAvD_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds)


### Infrastructure - Kustomization.yaml
1. Edit the Infrastructure layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/1-infra/kustomization.yaml`, un-comment the following lines, commit and push the changes and synchronize the `infra` Application in the ArgoCD console.

```bash        
cd multi-tenancy-gitops/0-bootstrap/single-cluster/1-infra
```

```yaml
- argocd/consolenotification.yaml
- argocd/namespace-db2.yaml
- argocd/namespace-mq.yaml
- argocd/namespace-tools.yaml
- argocd/namespace-sealed-secrets.yaml
- argocd/serviceaccounts-db2.yaml
- argocd/serviceaccounts-mq.yaml
- argocd/serviceaccounts-tools.yaml
```

### Services - Kustomization.yaml
1. This recipe is currently set to use the `ibmc-file-gold` storageclass provided by IBM Cloud by default.
1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` and install Sealed Secrets by uncommenting the following line, **commit** and **push** the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console.
    ```yaml
    - argocd/instances/sealed-secrets.yaml
    ```
1. Generate Sealed Secrets resources required by Sterling File Gateway.

    1. From a terminal window and clone the `multi-tenancy-gitops-services` repository using your Git Organization.
        
        ```bash
        git clone git@github.com:${GIT_ORG}/multi-tenancy-gitops-services.git
        ```
        ```bash
        cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi-setup
        ```
    1. Generate a Sealed Secret for the DB2 credentials.
        ```bash
        B2B_DB_SECRET=db2inst1 ./b2b-db-secret-secret.sh
        ```
    1. Generate a Sealed Secret for the MQ credentials, keystore and truststore password.
        ```bash
        JMS_PASSWORD=password JMS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD=password JMS_TRUSTSTORE_PASSWORD=password ./b2b-jms-secret.sh
        ```
    1. Generate a Sealed Secret for the B2B System Passphrase.
        ```bash
        B2B_SYSTEM_PASSPHRASE_SECRET=password ./b2b-system-passphrase-secret.sh
        ```

1. Generate Persistent Volume Yamls required by Sterling File Gateway:
    ```bash
    ./ibm-b2bi-documents-pv.sh
    ./ibm-b2bi-logs-pv.sh
    ./ibm-b2bi-resources-pv.sh
    ./sterlingtoolkit-pv.sh
    ```

>  💡 **NOTE**  
> Push the changes & sync ArgoCD.


1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` by uncommenting the following lines to install the pre-requisites for Sterling File Gateway, **commit** and **push** the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console.
    ```yaml
    - argocd/instances/ibm-db2.yaml
    - argocd/instances/ibm-mq.yaml
    - argocd/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi-setup.yaml
    ```

>  💡 **NOTE**  
> Push the changes & sync ArgoCD. 

1. Generate Helm Chart values.yaml for the Sterling File Gateway Helm Chart:
    
    ```bash
    cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi
    ./ibm-sfg-b2bi-overrides-values.sh
    ```

1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` by uncommenting the following line to install Sterling File Gateway, commit and push the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console:
   
1. Generate Helm Chart values.yaml for the Sterling File Gateway Helm Chart:
    ```
    cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi
    ./ibm-sfg-b2bi-overrides-values.sh
    ```

1. Generate Helm Chart values.yaml for the Sterling Secure File Gateway Helm Chart:
    
    ```bash
    cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi
    ./ibm-sfg-b2bi-overrides-values.sh
    ```

1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` by uncommenting the following line to install Secure File Gateway, commit and push the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console:
   
1. Generate Helm Chart values.yaml for the Sterling File Gateway Helm Chart:
    ```
    cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi
    ./ibm-sfg-b2bi-overrides-values.sh
    ```

1. Edit the Services layer `${GITOPS_PROFILE}/2-services/kustomization.yaml` by uncommenting the following line to install Sterling File Gateway, **commit** and **push** the changes and synchronize the `services` Application in the ArgoCD console:

    ```yaml
    - argocd/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi.yaml
    ```

>  💡 **NOTE**  
> Push the changes & sync ArgoCD this will take around 1.5 hr.
---
> **⚠️** Warning:  
> If you decided to scale the pods or upgrade the verison you should do the following steps:
>> **This is to avoid going through the job again**

- Step 1:
    ```bash
    cd multi-tenancy-gitops-services/instances/ibm-sfg-b2bi
    ```
- Step 2:
  - Inside `values.yaml`, find & set 
  - ```bash
    datasetup:
        enable: false
    dbCreateSchema: false
    ```
___

### Validation

1.  Retrieve the Sterling File Gateway console URL.

    ```bash
    oc get route -n tools ibm-sfg-b2bi-sfg-asi-internal-route-filegateway -o template --template='https://{{.spec.host}}'
    ```

2. Log in with the default credentials:  username:`fg_sysadmin` password: `password`
